# Handwritten_digits_classification_using_MNIST_Dataset
In this report we train and test a set of classifiers for pattern analysis in solving handwritten digit recognition problems, using MNIST database. Direction features are extracted for dimensionality reduction. The MNIST database (Modified National Institute of Standards and Technology database) is a large database of handwritten digits .The database is also widely used for training and testing in the field of machine learning. It was created by "re-mixing" the samples from NIST's original datasets. The creators felt that since NIST's training dataset was taken from American Census Bureau employees, while the testing dataset was taken from American high school students, it was not well-suited for machine learning experiments. Furthermore, the black and white images from NIST were normalized to fit into a 28x28 pixel bounding box and anti-aliased, which introduced grayscale levels. This study presents the  some researchers have achieved "near-human performance" on the MNIST database, using a committee of neural networks; in the same paper, the authors achieve performance double that of humans on other recognition tasks. The handwritten digit recognition is the ability of computers to recognize human handwritten digits. It is a hard task for the machine because handwritten digits are not perfect and can be made with many different flavors. It is a dataset of 60,000 small square 28×28 pixel grayscale images of handwritten single digits between 0 and 9. The task is to classify a given image of a handwritten digit into one of 10 classes representing integer values from 0 to 9, inclusively. In this project, we will perform binary classification . We will use python libraries such as ‘Numpy’, ‘Matplotlib’ , and ‘Tensorflow’ to explore and visualize the categorical and text information provided in the data set.In this report we train and test a set of classifiers for pattern analysis in solving handwritten digit recognition problems, using MNIST database. Direction features are extracted for dimensionality reduction. The MNIST database (Modified National Institute of Standards and Technology database) is a large database of handwritten digits .The database is also widely used for training and testing in the field of machine learning. It was created by "re-mixing" the samples from NIST's original datasets. The creators felt that since NIST's training dataset was taken from American Census Bureau employees, while the testing dataset was taken from American high school students, it was not well-suited for machine learning experiments. Furthermore, the black and white images from NIST were normalized to fit into a 28x28 pixel bounding box and anti-aliased, which introduced grayscale levels. This study presents the  some researchers have achieved "near-human performance" on the MNIST database, using a committee of neural networks; in the same paper, the authors achieve performance double that of humans on other recognition tasks. The handwritten digit recognition is the ability of computers to recognize human handwritten digits. It is a hard task for the machine because handwritten digits are not perfect and can be made with many different flavors. It is a dataset of 60,000 small square 28×28 pixel grayscale images of handwritten single digits between 0 and 9. The task is to classify a given image of a handwritten digit into one of 10 classes representing integer values from 0 to 9, inclusively. In this project, we will perform binary classification . We will use python libraries such as ‘Numpy’, ‘Matplotlib’ , and ‘Tensorflow’ to explore and visualize the categorical and text information provided in the data set.In this report we train and test a set of classifiers for pattern analysis in solving handwritten digit recognition problems, using MNIST database. Direction features are extracted for dimensionality reduction. The MNIST database (Modified National Institute of Standards and Technology database) is a large database of handwritten digits .The database is also widely used for training and testing in the field of machine learning. It was created by "re-mixing" the samples from NIST's original datasets. The creators felt that since NIST's training dataset was taken from American Census Bureau employees, while the testing dataset was taken from American high school students, it was not well-suited for machine learning experiments. Furthermore, the black and white images from NIST were normalized to fit into a 28x28 pixel bounding box and anti-aliased, which introduced grayscale levels. This study presents the  some researchers have achieved "near-human performance" on the MNIST database, using a committee of neural networks; in the same paper, the authors achieve performance double that of humans on other recognition tasks. The handwritten digit recognition is the ability of computers to recognize human handwritten digits. It is a hard task for the machine because handwritten digits are not perfect and can be made with many different flavors. It is a dataset of 60,000 small square 28×28 pixel grayscale images of handwritten single digits between 0 and 9. The task is to classify a given image of a handwritten digit into one of 10 classes representing integer values from 0 to 9, inclusively. In this project, we will perform binary classification . We will use python libraries such as ‘Numpy’, ‘Matplotlib’ , and ‘Tensorflow’ to explore and visualize the categorical and text information provided in the data set.
